These are my notes on the Zurinese language, a variety of German in the
Alemannic dialect family.


# Organization of Notes

The notes are organized into simple "linguistic scenarios", like going out for
coffee or buying tissues in a shop. As the manner of speaking varies quite a
bit from place to place in Switzerland, and anecdotally even within the canton
of Zürich, each dialogue is presented with some approximate place information.
The scenarios contain "stage directions" in English but dialogue is in
Zurinese and is generally presented without translation.

Perhaps some day, the material could be presented in a comic book format,
without stage directions. It would then function as a translation-free primer
in Zurinese, documenting actual linguistic performances and providing a guide
to situation-appropriate word choice. To the author's mind, exposure to whole
language is the best and most accurate way to present another culture's use of
language, both with an eye to cultural appreciation as well as correct word
choice, grammar and intonation. Grammars and dictionaries are helpful for
understanding utterances, but are of little use in constructing them; they
suggest a space of valid utterances which contains far more utterances than
are actually in use. Grammars and dictionaries provide a way to tune an almost
correct utterance or adapt an utterance for a related purpose, assuming the
speaker has one in mind to begin with. 


# Orthography

There is a growing body of instructional material and people regularly write
text messages and emails in Zurinese. Spelling is based on actual spellings as
I have discovered them, in correspondence, in written notes I have taken in
the presence of Zurinese speakers and in reference material, normalized as so
far as I have been able.

One notable point of contention between my tutors, reference works and online
sources is when to use 'e' and when to use 'ä'.

